VMWare
-----------

Status: 5 yrs exp into Full Stack Development Role
Position: Developer at SAP Labs
Location: Bangalore, IN
Date: April 2021

Round 1 Hackerrank Code Pair
Dont remember the exact question, a variant of Kadane's algorithm to find largest sum contiguous subarray

Round 2 Coding

Something similar to this
Define how many different sentences can be formed from given contiguous string and available set of words.
words = [i, love, man, go, mango, to, goto]

e.g. for “ilovemangoto” answer is 3

i love mango to
i love man go to
i love man goto

In depth discussion of current project, Microservices Architecture, CI/CD, Telemetry
Round 3 System Design
Vending Machine Design (LLD)
Maximum path in a tree

Round 4 Hiring Manager
Design Uber
Culture fitment questions

Round 5 Director
Discuss about usages of Microservices, tradeoff with Monolithic applications
VMWare Work culture
Culture fitment questions

Offer Details: VMWare Offer

------------------------------------------

Status : Senior Software Engineer in non-faang
Experience : 6.5+
Location : Bangalore
Position : MTS-3, VMware

A recruiter reached out on LinkedIn about the job opening and setup the interviews after a week.

Phone screen
https://leetcode.com/problems/min-stack/
https://leetcode.com/problems/score-of-parentheses/

Technical round 1
Design memory management subsystem

Technical round 2
Questions on projects in resume
https://leetcode.com/problems/reverse-nodes-in-k-group/

Technical round 3
Variation of LCA of binary tree
HLD - Software upgrades for servers in a distributed system

Hiring manager round
Standard behavioral questions and talked about the role

Result : Declined the offer as it was less than my current salary.
Compensation link : https://leetcode.com/discuss/compensation/1320291/VMware-or-MTS-3-or-Bangalore

------------------------------------------------


Status: B.Tech/MTech Computer Science from Tier 2 University/College.
Experience: 6+ Years of Experience in Multiple American MNCs (product based) on C/C++ Linux/Windows
Location: Pune (but have option to work remote permanently)
Date: Feb 2021
(I recently started using leetcode since mid January and till now i have solved almost 200 questions: 100 easy, 98 medium and 4 hard)

Recruiter contacted me on linkedin. I was casually looking for some challenging Jobs so just wanted to try where am i on my skills. So thought of trying it out. ( Till now i have already given almost 8 rounds of 2 more MNCs Qualcomm(4) and Synopsys (4))
Scheduled an interview in the 2nd week of Feb.
Completed 4 rounds within 2 weeks (2 with US Onsite team and 2 from India Team)
Round 1: Coding and Basic OS related questions 1hour
Leetcode medium question somewhat related to Flattening Binary Tree to LinkedList and some string related question.
Interviewer wanted recursive approach, but i was confident on iterative one so first solve those iteratively and later told approach about recursive solutions. I was asked to write complete code end to end with main( and not just the function). I implemented those in C++ and i used some stls. Interviewer was satisfied.

Then interviewer shared a piece of c code with me and asked to explain the memory layout of
the code/variables etc.
Then some basic questions related to threads, processes and Virtual Memory.
I think this round's feedback was very good.

Round 2: Basic Design Concepts and OS/Virtualization related questions 1 hour
This round was kind of discussion and interactive session for me where i also learnt lot of stuff
of OS internals. This was mostly to check how much i am aware of software development, interactions between libaries etc.
Questions:

Hypervisor related
Processor modes
How does you allocate memory other than std c library functions malloc/new etc? (Check alloca method of windows)
Tools related to debugging: gdb,valgrind etc? which tool i have used on windows side?
How do you identify memory leaks? How can you avoid those in first place? Tell other
momory related issues buffer overflow/underflow etc?
Thread related discussion on mutex,semaphore & conditional variables and when to use?
Some design pattern related questions, don't remember exactly.
What are atomic operations? Give some examples on Linux.
Explain static and dynamic linking in detail? Give some examples of those libraries?
Some questions related to interaction of static and dynamic libraries. How libstdc++ library is shared across programs while executing? Assume you a pointer provided to you by another library? How will you free memory at the end of program? What are you supposed to do in that case? ( You don't know how the other library have allocated memory, so can't simply call free and delete. So the correct answer is the other library should provide an API which is supposed to free the pointer and its library responsibility to provide you some APIs to do that)
I think this round's feedback also was very good.
Round 3: Coding round + scenario based questions
This round was supposed to be coding round, but interviewer said my feedback regarding coding is good till now so he will mostly focus on problem solving and other skills.

Some question related to arrays it was simple enough some find frequency in O(n). Interviewer was just checking my coding skill and then some bitwise related programs.
After i solved the previous question easily he moved to other stuff and questions were as follows:
what happens in background when you start typing ls -lrt (or dir or ps) on cmd? He wanted to understand end to end process? Like how event/interrupt handler of keyboards know which keys are being pressed? What if keyboard is chinese or in some other language? How does GUI cmd pointer prints whatever output is being given to you by shell/ls-lrt? (fork/execv/file descriptors etc)
How does monitor prints or shows something? How does it work? He wanted to understand how much i know about API and thier interactions using buffers (frame buffers/ output buffers etc)
Is keyboard listener event always active or busy waiting or in suspend state in case you haven't typed anything for lets assume 5 mins?
To be honest i didn't knew most of the questions (i have good understanding of file descriptors, fork , execv etc), but i still tried to answer and explain using what knowledge i had about event listeners/interrupt handlers etc.
He moved to next question which is kind of debugging a very generic problem.
He said customer/users are reporting that mouse is unusably slow on host VM when logging in using a client machine. He wanted me to come up what strategies how will i debug this? He told me i have access of complete source of vmware stack.
Explained him the complete approach starting from client machine where vmware software is installed till the point where mouse event reaches to host vm via network identifying where could be the possible problem. Interviewer was very helpful.
I think this round's feedback also Ok.

Round 4: Managerial Round
I was again preparing it to be technical but this interview was mostly interaction.
Hiring manager was really nice.
She told me she has received a very positive feedback regarding my skills and so they are kind of done with Technical rounds. And in this interview she wants to understand my expectation. She asked my questions about my previous work experience and projects.
Next day i got a call from HR that i am selected and they will soon release a initial offer.

Thanks to all leetcode community!!! Keep learning and keep coding.
Compensation details:
https://leetcode.com/discuss/compensation/1099277/Vmware-or-MTS3-or-Pune

--------------------------------------------

Recruiter contacted me in first week of May through email.

Round 1 : coding round

Validate IPV4
Kadanes algorithm
This round went well except for a small mistake in the first question, did not add check for negative values

Round 2 : Design round + coding
Lot of discussion on design patterns.
Asked to design Rate limiter.
Coding : 1) Write builder pattern example
2) binary search in a array with unknown length

The intervewer did not agree with some explanations initially for design patterns, had to explain every thing in detail. The rate limiter design discussion went really well, discussed trade offs on few approaches and agreed on a solution.

Round 3 : with Hiring Manager who is the director for hiring team.
Lot of discussion on my current project and design related questions.
Asked to design Rightsizing system for AWS resources (based on my experience).

This is the best round for me, the discussion was really good. Interviewer appreciated the high level design and DB schema, where I took care of future use cases.

I was suprised to see reject email from HR, waiting for the detailed feedback.

-----------------------------------------------

Status : New grad ,CS at Tier 1 College
Location : Banglore
Position : Member of Technical Staff 1

Process :
Apt/Coding Round 1 :

Time limit for each section : 2:30 hours
5 sections were there, each section had time limit of 30 minutes

MCQs on Quants, Reasoning and numericals based on OS,Networks
There was a coding question on very simple array manipulation
Out of 5 given languages, we were asked to choose 2 and questions were based on the language choosen
Round 2 :

Time : 30 minutes
Spoke about my projects, languages I'm comfortable with and previous summer internship experience
Two coding questions :

https://leetcode.com/problems/binary-tree-maximum-path-sum/
https://leetcode.com/problems/first-bad-version/
with little changes
Round 3 :

Time : This round went for like 50-70 minutes(couldn't keep track of time :P)

This round was more like a discussion. A lot of questions around development,previous internship, questions based on courses I did outside the curriculum specifically backend related questions, Hypothetical scenerios around development were asked. Questions around databases were also asked.The more answers I give, the more questions were asked based on the answer. Knowledge of SDLC would also be helpful in this round.

Round 4 :

Time : 15-20 minutes

Normal HR questions along with

Why job is important to you ?
What did you eat for lunch ?

----------------------------------------------

YOE: 1.8
I recieved a call from VM-Ware few days back and interview was scheduled for next day.

Round 1:

https://leetcode.com/problems/max-area-of-island/ Solution do simple DFS and keep track of maximum island encountered.
Design Parking Lot Using Oops concepts.
https://leetcode.com/problems/convert-sorted-list-to-binary-search-tree/
Round 2:

You are given a matrix of * and -, * occurs before -. You find need to find the rows with maximum no of *s.
A lot of discussion on this ques interviewer was expecting the most optimal
solution. I gave two solutions using binary search and he was OK with it
What is difference between process and thread. What are the things shared by
thread? How you can make program thread safe?
A lot of theoratical questions from OS like what is paging,segmentation,threads,mutex,semaphore etc.
What is thrashing.
Explain diamond problem in Cpp. Difference between Java and Cpp.
Interviewer was expecting me to know Cloud compting and virtualization etc. I couldn't tell about them as i didn't had any experience in these fields.
Round 3:
Round 3 was more like open discussion about various computer science concepts.
A coding Problem was also given.

You are given a program in form of string you need to verify if it has balanced parenthesis.
If not you need to print the mismatched lines.
Addition: there could be " in the code you need to validate it as well.
I was able to handle all the test cases. I did using Stack. Interviewer was happy with my solution.
Design attendance register. Use best possible data structure.
I told unordered_map could be used. unordered_map<string,vector >.
He gave me hint if i know about trie data structure. I said yes. So he asked me about trie data structure.
What it is how it will work in this case.
I was able to explain.
He asked me about maps. What is the difference between unordered_map and ordered map. As i had used
unordered_map in my previous solution. I explained about it that unordered_map uses hashing whereas map uses self balancing BST.
Then he asked me about the complexity in both the cases.
How will you balance not code i just need to draw a case on white board.
Questions from OS: Paging segementation Fragmentation semaphore. Give me a scenario where counting semaphore could be used. Answer is Read Write problem.
OOPs concepts few questions from OOPs.
Explain Race condition.
Few questions from JAVA and C++.
Interviewer gave me a scenario like multiple user are running on same machine. They shouldn't know that
other user is also running on the same machine.
I think this question is related to virtualization. I had no clue about it. So i told that what we can do is we can assign different kernel threads to different user's request. Interviewer seems OK with it.
After few time interviewer called me on Zoom to inform me that they are looking for a candidate
who knows things like kubernetes, docker cloud compting etc.

In the end i would study a lot of OS. I mean they ask a lot from OS.
You should know about linux as well as cloud computing.
In Coding you should be like very very good.

---------------------------------------